# blackjack
I created a small blackjack command line application. Run play.rb to start the game.

There are five separate files. Play.rb is the main file, which performs the game logic and takes user input. Card.rb is a class for cards which have suits and values. Deck.rb is a collection of Cards and does the set up with suits (using the symbols) and numbers, as well as shuffles. Player.rb is specific to a blackjack player, keeping track of their hand and the total value of their hand. It includes a method that calculates the total of their hand, which must be run after each "hit" because the Ace value changes depending on whether or not counting that Ace as an 11 would make the player bust. Dealer.rb inherits from the Player class, as they are the same kind, only Dealer has an extra rule - they must hit until their hand totals 17.

This game only includes hit and stand as possible player actions. A deck is created with 52 cards of each suit and number, and then shuffled. The player gets two cards and the dealer gets two cards, only one of which is revealed to the player. Then the player is asked if they want to hit or stand until they either stand or bust. If they do not bust (which results in a dealer win), the dealer gets to do their turn. The dealer first reveals their top card and then decides whether to hit or stand. The game ends when the dealer stands or the dealer busts. Then the game sees who is the winner based on whether the player or the dealer has a total hand value closer to 21.

I tried to split logic into different methods for better readability, as well as use Ruby's built in Enumerable methods as often as possible. I learned a lot about how the Enumerable methods work and found them to be especially useful when coming from Java! I liked how simple it is, for example, to sum up an array of values. I also liked the use of "unless" rather than "while" for a negative condition. Another thing that was quite different from Java was the discouragement of using many conditionals. I think it can be really common to use lots of conditionals in a Java program. Rubocop told me a lot of my "Assignment Branch Conditions" were too large. So, I had to find different ways to write my code without using too many AND's and OR's. For example, in my calculate_total method for Players, instead of checking if the card value is either J, Q, or K, I use the includes method. Overall, I found that the readability of Ruby is one of its strongest points as a language, which I personally am a big fan of because I think readability is very important for maintaining code, keeping cognitive load low and working with other people.
